TITLE: Troubleshooting Tips

Table.
Problem | Possible Causes | What to Do
Rumbling noise | Water conditions in your home caused a build up of scale or mineral deposits in the water heater | Allow a few quarts of water to run from drain valve to remove sediment settlings.
Relief valve producing popping noise or draining | Pressure build up caused by thermal expansion in a closed system | This is an unacceptable condition and must be corrected. Contact the water supplier or plumbing contractor on how to correct this. DO NOT plug the relief valve outlet
Not enough or no hot water | Water usage may have exceeded the capacity of the water heater | Wait for the water heater to recover after an abnormal demand
Not enough or no hot water | A fuse is blown or a circuit breaker tripped | Replace fuse or reset circuit breaker
Not enough or no hot water | Electric supply may be off | Confirm electric supply to water heater and see installation section of this manual.
Not enough or no hot water | The thermostat may be set too low | See the Temperature regulation of the water heater section of this manual
Not enough or no hot water | Leaking or open hot water faucets | Make sure all faucets are closed
Not enough or no hot water | Electric service to your home may be interrupted | Contact the local electric utility.
Not enough or no hot water | Improper wiring | See the Installing the water heater section of this manual.
Not enough or no hot water | Manual reset limit (ECO) | See the Temperature regulation of the water heater Refer to page 3 for more information.
Not enough or no hot water | Cold water inlet temperature may be colder during the winter months | This is normal. The colder inlet water takes longer to heat.
Not enough or no hot water | Not enough air exchange for Efficient Heat Pump Operation. | If air temperature drops more than 15°F (8°C) during Heat Pump Operation, more air circulation around heater is needed.
Water is too hot | The thermostat is set too high | See the Temperature regulation of the water heater section of this manual

CAUTION: For your safety DO NOT attempt repair of electrical wiring, thermostats, heating elements or other safety devices. Refer repairs to qualified service personnel.

SUBTITLE: Troubleshooting Alarm Codes
The water heater will make an audible beep for notification of Alarms and Warning icon. The following steps should be used in determining the Alarm code:
1) Press "Next" button until "Current Alarm" is visible.
2) Press "Down" arrow button to scroll through the active alarms.

Table.
1.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A004 (Comp.Shutdown: Discharge-Suction Trip) - Heating source defaults to elements due to compressor malfunction
• A005 (Compressor Shutdown: Discharge Temp High) - Heating source defaults to elements due to compressor malfunction
• T005 (Compressor Shutdown: Discharge Temp High) - Heating source defaults to elements due to low airflow
• A006/T006 (Suction Temperature Too Low) - Heating source defaults to elements due to compressor malfunction
1.2. What to Do:
 a. Confirm fan is operational while compressor is on. (If the fan is not operational, check continuity from middle(ground)terminal to either outside terminal. If there is a 60V or higher reading, the fan should be running and will need to be replaced. If not, replace the control board (rare)).
 b. Confirm filter screen is clean.
 c. Inspect compressor and surrounding components for any obvious signs of refrigerant leak (oily residue) If the compressor is not operational or there are signs of leakage, the unit will need to be replaced as we do not service sealed system parts.
2.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A008 (Detected Dry Fire Condition) - Dry fire protection - Not sufficient water in storage tank: Heater disabled
2.2. What to Do:
 a. Fill storage tank with water.
 b. Purge all air from the storage tank by running a hot water faucet (This is generally an installation issue and indicates there is air in the tank.) If the unit is still displaying the A008, air is still present and should be purged again. Any issues with the board or sensors would exhibit a different alarm code.
3.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• T009 (Compressor wiring may be faulty) - Heating source default to elements due to compressor malfunction
• A009 (Compressor wiring may be faulty) - Heating source default to elements due to compressor malfunction
• A101 (Suction Temperature Sensor Failure) - Heating source defaults to elements due to heat pump temperature sensor malfunction
• A102 (Ambient Temperature Sensor Failure) - Heating source defaults to elements due to heat pump temperature sensor malfunction
• A103 (Lower Heater Temp Sensor Failure) - Lower tank temperature sensor malfunction. Heater disabled.
• A104 (Upper Heater Temp Sensor Failure) - Lower tank temperature sensor malfunction. Heater disabled.
• A105 (Evaporator Temp Sensor Failure) - Heating source defaults to elements due to heat pump temperature malfunction.
• A106 (Discharge Temp Sensor Failure) - Heating source defaults to elements due to heat pump temperature malfunction. 
3.2. What to Do:
 a. Check connections of the wiring and sensors.
 b. Get an Ohm reading on the thermistors (if multimeter is available) (See Ohm chart for correct readings based on ambient temperature).
 c. Check on display by selecting Service-->Sensors-->If sensor shows - 40°F, the circuit is open. +250°F indicates the circuit has shorted. Note: To confirm reading, power down the unit and unplug the thermistor from the board. Check Ohm reading.
4.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A107 (Water Detected on Floor: Check For Leaks) - Water is detected in the drain pan
4.2. What to Do:
 a. Check for obvious water leaks (If leak is present, service for unit leakage).
 b. If obvious leakage is not present, disconnect rope sensor from the board and if the code is no longer present, dry (a blow dryer is an acceptable method) or replace rope sensor.
 c. If error is still present once the rope sensor has been replaced, the board will need to be replaced.
 d. Press and hold the "Clear Alarm" button for 5 seconds to override the alarm for 24 hrs.
5.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A108 (Condensate Blocked: Unclog Line) - Heating source defaults to elements due to condensate drain blockage
5.2. What to Do:
 a. Remove top cover from tank
 b. Visually inspect to ensure condensate line is clear and there is not excessive condensate in condensate pan
 c. If water is present, locate blockage and unlock.
 d. Ask customer to where the condensate is being routed 5. If pan is dry and no blockage is present, replace condensate sensor.
6.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A125 (Lower Element Error or Relay Stuck Closed) - Heating element or control board failure. Heater disabled.
• A126 (Upper Element Error or Relay Stuck Closed) - Heating element or control board failure. Heater disabled.
6.2. What to Do:
 a. Disconnect power to unit
 b. Check resistance on element per included Ohm Reading Chart
 c. If acceptable ohm reading is present, replace board 
 d. If ohm reading is not as it should be per included chart, replace
7.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A127 (Element Wire Routing Error) - Elements mis-wired or control board failure. Heater disabled.
7.2. What to Do:
 a. Disconnect power to unit.
 b. Check wiring connection to heating element.
 c. Ensure both wires are properly connected at element and board.
 d. Check ohm reading on heating element if wires are properly connected.
 e. Of acceptable ohm reading is present, replace board. If not, replace element.
8.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A128 (Lower Element Relay Failure to Close Error) - Control board relay failure. Heater disabled.
• A129 (Upper Element Relay Failure to Close Error) - Control board relay failure. Heater disabled.
8.2. What to Do:
 a. Disconnect power to unit.
 b. Check wiring connection.
 c. Check ohm reading if wires are properly connected.
 d. Of acceptable ohm reading is present, replace board. If not, replace relay.
9.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A130 (Unit Off/Air Temp Freezing: Enable Unit) - Ambient temperature is below freezing. --FREEZE WARNING
9.2. What to Do:
Select mode to enable heater (Turn it on).
10.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• T131 (Clean Filter Reminder) - Air filter routine maintenance reminder
10.2. What to Do:
 a. Set mode to Electric or OFF.
 b. Remove air filter and clean by washing with a mild detergent.
 c. Dry air filter and reinstall.
 d. Set unit to desired mode.
11.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• T132 Water Heater difficulty satisfying demand Water heater can not satisfy demand
11.2. What to Do:
 a. Check for open faucets.
 b. Check for water leaks.
 c. If none present, unit may be improperly sized.
12.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A120 (Shutoff Valve Can’t Close Error) - Shut-Off Valve malfunction
• A121 (Shutoff Valve Can’t Open Error) - Shut-Off Valve malfunction
• A122 (Shutoff Valve Inputs in Error) - Shut-Off Valve malfunction
• A123 (Shut-Off Valve Not Installed) - Shut-Off Valve malfunction
12.2. What to Do:
 a. Check connections of the wiring.
 b. Unplug and plug back the Shut-Off valve.
 c. If alarm persist, call customer service.
13.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A200 (High Water Temp! [ECO] Call Tech Service) - ECO Tripped. Heater Disabled
13.2. What to Do:
 a. Disconnect power to unit.
 b. Check elements from screw to ground.
 c. Check resistance to thermistors.
 d. If the issue is neither the elements or thermistor, replace board.
14.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• T300 Water Leak Sensor Not Installed Water Leak Sensor Not Installed
14.2. What to Do
 a. Check to ensure water leak sensor is installed.
 b. Check wiring connections to sensor from board.
 c. Check resistance to sensor to deter- mine whether sensor or board should be replaced (See ohm reading chart for correct readings).
15.1. Code (Troubleshooting Guide) - Possible Causes:
• A502 (Time Clock needs to be programmed) - Controller malfunction. Heater disabled.
• A503 (Time Clock not advancing time properly) - Controller malfunction. Heater disabled.
• T504 (WiFi Chip Communication Error) - Controller malfunction. Heater disabled.
• A900, T901, A902, A903, A904, A905 (Controller Fault: Call Tech Service) - Controller malfunction. Heater disabled.
• A906 (Power Board Temp. Protection Sensor Failure) - Controller getting too hot.
15.2. What to Do
Replace Control Board
